1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA What do you want to become? Browse by Category AlI Arts Business Technology Popular Careers Computer Scientist Computer Scientist involves working with Computer Studies and related fields_ Select Robotics Engineer Robotics Engineer involves working with Computer Studies and related fields. Select Telecommunication Engineer Telecommunication Engineer involves working with Computer Studies and related fields Select Software Developer/Engineer Software Developer/Engineer involves working with Computer Studies and related fields. Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 1/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA System Administrator System Administrator involves working with Computer Studies and related fields: Select Database Administrator Database Administrator involves working with Computer Studies and related fields Select Network Engineer/Administrator Network Engineer/Administrator involves working with Computer Studies related fields: Select Cybersecurity Analyst/Specialist Cybersecurity Analyst/Specialist involves working with Computer Studies and related fields. Select Web Developer Web Developer involves working with Computer Studies, Media Technology and related fields. Select Data Analyst Data Analyst involves working with Computer Studies and related fields. Select IT Support Specialist IT Support Specialist involves working with Computer Studies and related fields. https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 2/50 and
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Computer Science Educator Computer Science Educator involves working with Computer Studies and related fields. Select Cloud Solutions Architect Cloud Solutions Architect involves working with Computer Studies and related fields. Select Artificial Intelligence Engineer Artificial Intelligence Engineer involves working with Computer Studies and related fields: Select Machine Learning Engineer Machine Learning Engineer involves working with Computer Studies and related fields Select UI/UX Designer UVUX Designer involves working with Computer Studies, Media Technology and related fields: Select Game Developer Game Developer involves working with Computer Studies and related fields: Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 3/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Hardware Engineer Hardware Engineer involves working with Computer Studies and related fields Select Quantum Computing Scientist/Engineer Quantum Computing Scientist/Engineer involves working with Computer Studies and related fields. Select ARIVR Developer ARYVR Developer involves working with Computer Studies and related fields. Select IT Project Manager IT Project Manager involves working with Computer Studies and related fields. Select Agricultural Engineer Agricultural Engineer involves working with Agriculture and related fields. Select Agribusiness Manager Agribusiness Manager involves working with Agriculture and related fields: Select Crop Consultant https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 4/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Crop Consultant involves working with Agriculture and related fields. Select Livestock Manager Livestock Manager involves working with Agriculture and related fields. Select Horticulturist Horticulturist involves working with Agriculture and related fields Select Agricultural Extension Officer Agricultural Extension Officer involves working with Agriculture and related fields: Select Food Safety Inspector Food Safety Inspector involves working with Agriculture and related fields: Select Farm Manager Farm Manager involves working with Agriculture and related fields. Select Agricultural Scientist Agricultural Scientist involves working with Agriculture and related fields: Career Selection https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 5/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Soil Scientist Soil Scientist involves working with Agriculture and related fields: Select Professional Musician (Instrumentalist; Vocalist) Professional Musician (Instrumentalist; Vocalist) involves working with Music & Dance and related fields Select Professional Dancer Professional Dancer involves working with Music & Dance and related fields: Select Composer/Arranger Composer/Arranger involves working with Music & Dance and related fields. Select Music Teacher/Instructor Music Teacher/Instructor involves working with Music & Dance and related fields. Select Dance Instructor Dance Instructor involves working with Music & Dance and related fields. Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 6/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Choreographer Choreographer involves working with Music & Dance and related fields. Select Performing Artist (opera, dance troupes, etc ) Performing Artist (opera, dance troupes, etc ) involves working with Music & Dance and related fields: Select Music Therapist Music Therapist involves working with Music & Dance and related fields: Select Dance Therapist Dance Therapist involves working with Music & Dance and related fields Select Sound Engineer Sound Engineer involves working with Music & Dance and related fields. Select Music Journalist/Critic Music Journalist/Critic involves working with Music & Dance and related fields Select Dance Critic Dance Critic involves working with Music & Dance and related fields https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 7/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Visual Artist (Painter; Sculptor; Illustrator) Visual Artist (Painter; Sculptor; Illustrator) involves working with Fine Arts and related fields: Select Art Teacher/Instructor Art Teacher/Instructor involves working with Fine Arts and related fields Select Art Conservator/Restorer Art Conservator/Restorer involves working with Fine Arts and related fields: Select Art Gallery Curator Art Gallery Curator involves working with Fine Arts and related fields Select Art Director (advertising; design firms) Art Director (advertising; design firms) involves working with Fine Arts and related fields Select Art Critic/Reviewer Art Critic/Reviewer involves working with Fine Arts and related fields. Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 8/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Museum Curator Museum Curator involves working with Fine Arts, History & Citizenship and related fields. Select Exhibition Designer Exhibition Designer involves working with Fine Arts and related fields: Select Illustrator (books, magazines) Illustrator (books, magazines) involves working with Fine Arts and related fields. Select Graphic Designer Graphic Designer involves working with Fine Arts and related fields: Select Lighting Designer Lighting Designer involves working with Theatre & Film and related fields_ Select Sound Designer Sound Designer involves working with Theatre & Film and related fields. Select Film Editor https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 9/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Film Editor involves working with Theatre & Film and related fields. Select Producer (Theatre, Film, Television) Producer (Theatre; Film; Television) involves working with Theatre & Film and related fields: Select Casting Director Casting Director involves working with Theatre & Film and related fields Select Actor/Actress Actor/Actress involves working with Theatre & Film and related fields. Select Director (Theatre, Film, Television) Director (Theatre, Film, Television) involves working with Theatre & Film and related fields: Select Playwright/Screenwriter Playwright/Screenwriter involves working with Theatre & Film and related fields Select Set Designer Set Designer involves working with Theatre & Film and related fields. https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 10/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Art Director Art Director involves working with Theatre & Film and related fields. Select Costume Designer Costume Designer involves working with Theatre & Film and related fields Select Recreation Manager Recreation Manager involves working with Sports & Recreation and related fields. Select Camp Coordinator Camp Coordinator involves working with Sports & Recreation and related fields: Select Outdoor Adventure Guide/lInstructor Outdoor Adventure Guide/lnstructor involves working with Sports & Recreation and related fields: Select Park Ranger/Naturalist Park Ranger/Naturalist involves working with Sports & Recreation and related fields: Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 11/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Event Planner/Coordinator Event Planner/Coordinator involves working with Sports & Recreation and related fields. Select Resort/Cruise Ship Recreation Director Resort/Cruise Ship Recreation Director involves working with Sports & Recreation and related fields: Select Professional Athlete Professional Athlete involves working with Sports & Recreation and related fields: Select Coach/Trainer Coach/Trainer involves working with Sports & Recreation and related fields Select Sports Official/Referee/Umpire Sports Official/Referee/Umpire involves working with Sports & Recreation and related fields: Select Sports Agent/Manager Sports Agent/Manager involves working with Sports & Recreation and related fields: Select Sports Journalist/Reporter Sports Journalist/Reporter involves working with Sports & Recreation and related fields: https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 12/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Sports Broadcaster/Commentator Sports Broadcaster/Commentator involves working with Sports & Recreation and related fields: Select Sports Photographer/Videographer Sports Photographer/Videographer involves working with Sports & Recreation and related fields. Select Sports Editor/Producer Sports Editor/Producer involves working with Sports & Recreation and related fields: Select Sports Marketing Specialist Sports Marketing Specialist involves working with Sports & Recreation and related fields Select Sports Team Manager/Administrator Sports Team Manager/Administrator involves working with Sports & Recreation and related fields: Select Athletic Director Athletic Director involves working with Sports & Recreation and related fields: Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 13/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Sports Facility Manager Sports Facility Manager involves working with Sports & Recreation and related fields. Select Sports Event Coordinator Sports Event Coordinator involves working with Sports & Recreation and related fields: Select Writer/Author Writer/Author involves working with Literature in English and related fields Select Editor Editor involves working with Literature in English and related fields. Select Proofreader Proofreader involves working with Literature in English and related fields. Select Teacher Teacher involves working with Literature in English and related fields. Select Journalist https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 14/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Journalist involves working with Literature in English; Kenya Sign Language and related fields. Select Reporter Reporter involves working with Literature in English and related fields. Select Content Writer Content Writer involves working with Literature in English and related fields. Select Copywriter Copywriter involves working with Literature in English and related fields. Select Public Relations Specialist Public Relations Specialist involves working with Literature in English and related fields Select Communication Specialist Communication Specialist involves working with Literature in English and related fields: Select Literary Critic/Scholar Literary Critic/Scholar involves working with Literature in English and related fields. https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 15/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Professor of English Literature Professor of English Literature involves working with Literature in English and related fields_ Select Publisher Publisher involves working with Literature in English and related fields_ Select Cultural Heritage Officer Cultural Heritage Officer involves working with Literature in English, Kenya Sign Language, History & Citizenship and related fields. Select Kiswahili Teacher/ Instructor Kiswahili Teacher /Instructor involves working with Fasihi ya Kiswahili and related fields Select Translator/Interpreter Translator/Interpreter involves working with Fasihi ya Kiswahili; Sign Language related fields. Select Journalist/Reporter (Kiswahili media) Journalist/Reporter (Kiswahili media) involves working with Fasihi ya Kiswahili and related fields. https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 16/50 Kenya and
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Government Official/Diplomat Government Official/Diplomat involves working with Fasihi ya Kiswahili and related fields. Select Cultural Consultant Cultural Consultant involves working with Fasihi ya Kiswahili and related fields. Select Literary Critic/Scholar (Swahili literature) Literary Critic/Scholar (Swahili literature) involves working with Fasihi ya Kiswahili and related fields. Select Professor of Swahili Literature Professor of Swahili Literature involves working with Fasihi ya Kiswahili and related fields. Select Publisher (Swahili literature) Publisher (Swahili literature) involves working with Fasihi ya Kiswahili and related fields. Select Sign Language Interpreter Sign Language Interpreter involves working with Kenya Sign Language and related fields. Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 17/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Sign Language Teacher /Instructor Sign Language Teacher /Instructor involves working with Kenya Sign Language and related fields Select Advocate for the Deaf Community Advocate for the Deaf Community involves working with Kenya Sign Language and related fields: Select Social Worker (specializing in deaf services) Social Worker (specializing in deaf services) involves working with Sign Language and related fields: Select Disability Rights Activist Disability Rights Activist involves working with Language and related fields. Select Literary Agent Researcher/Archivist Literary Agent Researcher/Archivist involves working with Language and related fields. Select Language Teacher/Instructor Language Teacher/Instructor involves working with Kenya Sign Language and related fields Select International Business/Trade Specialist International Business/Trade Specialist involves working with Kenya Sign Language and related fields. https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 18/50 Kenya Kenya Sign Kenya Sign
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Diplomat/Foreign Service Officer Diplomat/Foreign Service Officer involves working with Sign Language and related fields. Select Cultural Liaison/Consultant Cultural Liaison/Consultant involves working with Sign Language related fields_ Select Religious Leader/Clergy Religious Leader/Clergy involves working with Christian Religious Education, Islamic Religious Education, Hindu Religious Education and related fields: Select Religious Educator/Teacher Religious Educator/Teacher involves working with Christian Religious Education; Islamic Religious Education; Hindu Religious Education and related fields: Select Counselor/Chaplain Counselor/Chaplain involves working with Christian Religious Education, Islamic Religious Education; Hindu Religious Education and related fields. Select Interfaith Dialogue Coordinator Interfaith Dialogue Coordinator involves working with Christian Religious Education; Islamic Religious Education, Hindu Religious Education and related fields. https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 19/50 Kenya Kenya and
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Community Outreach Worker Community Outreach Worker involves working with Christian Religious Education; Islamic Religious Education; Hindu Religious Education and related fields. Select Religious Researcher/Scholar Religious Researcher/Scholar involves working with Christian Religious Education; Islamic Religious Education; Hindu Religious Education and related fields. Select Entrepreneur/Business Owner Entrepreneur/Business Owner involves working with Business Studies and related fields_ Select Business Manager/Administrator Business Manager/Administrator involves working with Business Studies and related fields_ Select Marketing Specialist/Manager Marketing Specialist/Manager involves working with Business Studies and related fields: Select Human Resources Manager/Officer Human Resources Manager/Officer involves working with Business Studies related fields. https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 20/50 and
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Financial Analyst/Advisor Financial Analyst/Advisor involves working with Business Studies and related fields. Select Management Consultant Management Consultant involves working with Business Studies and related fields. Select Supply Chain Manager Supply Chain Manager involves working with Business Studies and related fields. Select Sales Representative/Manager Sales Representative/Manager involves working with Business Studies and related fields. Select Accountant Accountant involves working with Business Studies related fields: Select Historian Historian involves working with History & Citizenship and related fields. Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 21/50 and
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA History Teacher History Teacher involves working with History & Citizenship and related fields: Select Archivist Archivist involves working with & Citizenship and related fields. Select Political Analyst Political Analyst involves working with History & Citizenship and related fields Select Civil Service Administrator Civil Service Administrator involves working with & Citizenship and related fields. Select Diplomat Diplomat involves working with History & Citizenship and related fields: Select Policy Advisor Policy Advisor involves working with History & Citizenship and related fields Select Lawyer (with focus on constitutional/human rights law) https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 22/50 History History
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Lawyer (with focus on constitutional/human rights Iaw) involves working with History & Citizenship and related fields. Select Journalist (political/historical focus) Journalist (political/historical focus) involves working with History & Citizenship and related fields. Select Genealogist Genealogist involves working with History & Citizenship and related fields_ Select Tour Guide (historical sites) Tour Guide (historical sites) involves working with History & Citizenship and related fields Select Urban/Regional Planner Urban/Regional Planner involves working with Geography and related fields. Select Environmental Consultant Environmental Consultant involves working with Geography; Marine & Fisheries and related fields. Select GIS Specialist GIS Specialist involves working with Geography and related fields https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 23/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Cartographer/Mapmaker Cartographer/Mapmaker involves working with Geography and related fields. Select Conservation Scientist/Forester Conservation Scientist/Forester involves working with Geography and related fields. Select Transportation Planner Transportation Planner involves working with Geography and related fields. Select Economic Development Specialist Economic Development Specialist involves working with Geography and related fields: Select Climate Change Analyst Climate Change Analyst involves working with Geography and related fields Select Surveyor Surveyor involves working with Geography and related fields Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 24/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Hydrologist Hydrologist involves working with Geography; Marine & Fisheries and related fields. Select Demographer Demographer involves working with Geography and related fields. Select Geospatial Analyst Geospatial Analyst involves working with Geography and related fields. Select Disaster Management Specialist Disaster Management Specialist involves working with Geography and related fields Select Research Scientist Research Scientist involves working with Biology; Chemistry; Physics and related fields: Select Biologist Biologist involves working with Biology, Chemistry, Physics and related fields: Select Chemist Chemist involves working with Biology, Chemistry, Physics and related fields https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 25/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Physicist Physicist involves working with Chemistry; Physics and related fields. Select Astronomer Astronomer involves working with Chemistry, Physics and related fields Select Mathematician Mathematician involves working with Biology; Chemistry, Physics and related fields: Select Geologist Geologist involves working with Chemistry, Physics and related fields Select Ecologist Ecologist involves working with Chemistry; Physics and related fields: Select Oceanographer Oceanographer involves working with Biology; Chemistry; Physics and related fields. Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 26/50 Biology; Biology; Biology; Biology,
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Meteorologist Meteorologist involves working with Biology; Chemistry; Physics and related fields. Select Seismologist Seismologist involves working with Biology; Chemistry; Physics and related fields. Select Biophysicist Biophysicist involves working with Biology, Chemistry; Physics and related fields Select Climatologist Climatologist involves working with Biology, Chemistry; Physics and related fields. Select Paleontologist Paleontologist involves working with Chemistry; Physics and related fields: Select Engineer Engineer involves working with Chemistry; Physics and related fields: Select Environmental Scientist https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 27/50 Biology; Biology;
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Environmental Scientist involves working with Biology; Chemistry; Physics and related fields: Select Forensic Scientist Forensic Scientist involves working with Chemistry; Physics and related fields. Select Medical Technologist Medical Technologist involves working with Biology; Chemistry, Physics and related fields: Select Pharmacist Pharmacist involves working with Biology, Chemistry, Physics and related fields Select Biomedical Engineer Biomedical Engineer involves working with Chemistry; Physics and related fields. Select Food Scientist Food Scientist involves working with Chemistry; Physics and related fields Select Material Scientist Material Scientist involves working with Biology; Chemistry; Physics and related fields https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 28/50 Biology, Biology; Biology;
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Industrial Designer Industrial Designer involves working with Chemistry, Physics and related fields: Select Quality Assurance (QA) Engineer Quality Assurance (QA) Engineer involves working with Biology, Chemistry, Physics and related fields. Select Petroleum Engineer Petroleum Engineer involves working with Biology; Chemistry; Physics and related fields. Select Nuclear Engineer Nuclear Engineer involves working with Chemistry; Physics and related fields: Select Renewable Energy Specialist Renewable Energy Specialist involves working with Chemistry; Physics and related fields_ Select Water Resource Engineer Water Resource Engineer involves working with Biology; Chemistry; Physics and related fields. Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 29/50 Biology, Biology; Biology;
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Safety Engineer Safety Engineer involves working with Biology; Chemistry, Physics and related fields. Select Science Educator Science Educator involves working with Chemistry; Physics and related fields. Select Neurologist Neurologist involves working with Biology; Chemistry; Physics and related fields. Select Botanist Botanist involves working with Biology; Chemistry, Physics and related fields. Select Zoologist Zoologist involves working with Biology; Chemistry, Physics and related fields. Select Geneticist Geneticist involves working with Biology; Chemistry, Physics and related fields: Select Astrophysicist Astrophysicist involves working with Biology; Chemistry, Physics and related fields https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 30/50 Biology;
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Entomologist Entomologist involves working with Chemistry; Physics and related fields. Select Marine Biologist Marine Biologist involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields Select Marine Ecologist Marine Ecologist involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields: Select Coral Reef Specialist Coral Reef Specialist involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields. Select Fisheries Manager Fisheries Manager involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields. Select Aquaculture Specialist Aquaculture Specialist involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields. Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 31/50 Biology;
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Aquaculture Manager Aquaculture Manager involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields. Select Hatchery Manager Hatchery Manager involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields. Select Marine Scientist Marine Scientist involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields: Select Fisheries Oceanographer Fisheries Oceanographer involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields. Select Marine Conservationist Marine Conservationist involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields Select Marine Policy Analyst Marine Policy Analyst involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields. Select Marine Engineer https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 32/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Marine Engineer involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields: Select Naval Architect Naval Architect involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields. Select Deck Officer Deck Officer involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields Select Commercial Fisher Commercial Fisher involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields: Select Seafood Quality Control Officer Seafood Quality Control Officer involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields. Select Processing Plant Manager Processing Plant Manager involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields. Select Marine Researcher Marine Researcher involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 33/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Marine Science Educator Marine Science Educator involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields: Select Marine Geologist Marine Geologist involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields. Select Underwater Archaeologist Underwater Archaeologist involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields. Select Coastal Zone Manager Coastal Zone Manager involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields. Select Marine Educator Marine Educator involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields. Select Water Sports Instructor Water Sports Instructor involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields: Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 34/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Marine Mining Specialist Marine Specialist involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields: Select Marine Transport Specialist Marine Transport Specialist involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields: Select Port Manager Port Manager involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields: Select Marine Environmental Consultant Marine Environmental Consultant involves working with Marine & Fisheries related fields. Select Marine Resource Manager Marine Resource Manager involves working with Marine & Fisheries and related fields: Select Welder Welder involves working with Metal Work and related fields. Select Machinist Machinist involves working with Metal Work and related fields. https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 35/50 Mining and
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Sheet Metal Worker Sheet Metal Worker involves working with Metal Work and related fields. Select Metal Fabricator Metal Fabricator involves working with Metal Work and related fields Select Blacksmith Blacksmith involves working with Metal Work and related fields_ Select Metal Sculptor Metal Sculptor involves working with Metal Work and related fields. Select Ironworker Ironworker involves working with Metal Work and related fields. Select Metal Casting Technician Metal Casting Technician involves working with Metal Work and related fields. Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 36/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Metal Finisher Metal Finisher involves working with Metal Work and related fields. Select CNC Machine Operator CNC Machine Operator involves working with Metal Work and related fields: Select Carpenter Carpenter involves working with Wood Work and related fields_ Select Cabinet Maker Cabinet Maker involves working with Wood Work and related fields: Select Woodworker Woodworker involves working with Wood Work and related fields Select Joiner Joiner involves working with Wood Work and related fields. Select Wood Turner https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 37/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Wood Turner involves working with Wood Work and related fields: Select Furniture Designer Furniture Designer involves working with Wood Work and related fields. Select Luthier (Instrument Maker) Luthier (Instrument Maker) involves working with Wood Work and related fields Select Boat Builder Boat Builder involves working with Wood Work and related fields. Select Wood Carver Wood Carver involves working with Wood Work and related fields: Select Restoration Specialist Restoration Specialist involves working with Wood Work and related fields: Select Pilot (Commercial/Private) Pilot (Commercial/Private) involves working with Aviation and related fields. https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 38/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Aircraft Mechanic/ Technician Aircraft Mechanic/Technician involves working with Aviation and related fields: Select Aerospace Engineer Aerospace Engineer involves working with Aviation and related fields. Select Aviation Maintenance Manager Aviation Maintenance Manager involves working with Aviation and related fields: Select Flight Dispatcher Flight Dispatcher involves working with Aviation and related fields. Select Air Traffic Controller Air Traffic Controller involves working with Aviation and related fields. Select Avionics Technician Avionics Technician involves working with Aviation and related fields Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 39/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Flight Instructor Flight Instructor involves working with Aviation and related fields. Select Aircraft Inspector Aircraft Inspector involves working with Aviation and related fields_ Select Drone Operator Drone Operator involves working with Aviation and related fields: Select Construction Manager Construction Manager involves working with Building & Construction and related fields Select Civil Engineer Civil Engineer involves working with Building Construction and related fields; Select Architect Architect involves working with Building & Construction and related fields_ Select Structural Engineer Structural Engineer involves working with Building & Construction and related fields https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 40/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Construction Worker Construction Worker involves working with Building & Construction and related fields. Select Quantity Surveyor Quantity Surveyor involves working with Building & Construction and related fields. Select Building Inspector Building Inspector involves working with Building & Construction and related fields Select Site Supervisor Site Supervisor involves working with Building & Construction and related fields: Select Estimator Estimator involves working with Building & Construction and related fields Select Bricklayer Bricklayer involves working with Building & Construction and related fields. Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 41/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Electrician Electrician involves working with Electricity and related fields: Select Electrical Engineer Electrical Engineer involves working with Electricity and related fields: Select Power System Technician Power System Technician involves working with Electricity and related fields: Select Electrical Drafter Electrical Drafter involves working with Electricity and related fields Select Power Plant Operator Power Plant Operator involves working with Electricity and related fields Select Renewable Energy Technician Renewable Energy Technician involves working with Electricity and related fields. Select Electrical Inspector https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 42/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Electrical Inspector involves working with Electricity and related fields. Select Control Systems Technician Control Systems Technician involves working with Electricity and related fields. Select Instrumentation Technician Instrumentation Technician involves working with Electricity and related fields Select Smart Grid Technician Smart Grid Technician involves working with Electricity and related fields. Select Mechanical Engineer Mechanical Engineer involves working with Power Mechanics and related fields Select Automotive Technician Automotive Technician involves working with Power Mechanics and related fields. Select Heavy Equipment Operator Heavy Equipment Operator involves working with Power Mechanics and related fields: https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 43/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Diesel Systems Mechanic Diesel Systems Mechanic involves working with Power Mechanics and related fields. Select HVAC Technician HVAC Technician involves working with Power Mechanics and related fields Select Industrial Machinery Mechanic Industrial Machinery Mechanic involves working with Power Mechanics and related fields: Select Aircraft Mechanic Aircraft Mechanic involves working with Power Mechanics and related fields. Select Elevator Installer /Repairer Elevator Installer/Repairer involves working with Power Mechanics and related fields: Select Railway Mechanic Railway Mechanic involves working with Power Mechanics and related fields. Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 44/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Hydraulics Specialist Hydraulics Specialist involves working with Power Mechanics and related fields: Select Multimedia Producer Multimedia Producer involves working with Media Technology and related fields: Select Video Editor Video Editor involves working with Media Technology and related fields: Select Audio Engineer Audio Engineer involves working with Media Technology and related fields. Select Animation Specialist Animation Specialist involves working with Media Technology and related fields. Select Broadcast Technician Broadcast Technician involves working with Media Technology and related fields: Select Video Journalist Video Journalist involves working with Media Technology and related fields: https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 45/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Podcast Producer Podcast Producer involves working with Media Technology and related fields. Select Game Designer/Developer Game Designer/Developer involves working with Media Technology and related fields. Select VR/AR Developer VRYAR Developer involves working with Media Technology and related fields. Select Mobile Developer Mobile App Developer involves working with Media Technology and related fields. Select Digital Marketer Digital Marketer involves working with Media Technology and related fields Select Social Media Manager Social Media Manager involves working with Media Technology and related fields: Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 46/50 App'
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA SEO Specialist SEO Specialist involves working with Media Technology and related fields. Select Film & TV Producer Film & TV Producer involves working with Media Technology and related fields: Select VFX Artist VFX Artist involves working with Media Technology and related fields Select Media Systems Engineer Media Systems Engineer involves working with Media Technology and related fields. Select Cloud Media Specialist Cloud Media Specialist involves working with Media Technology and related fields. Select Al & Automation Specialist Al & Automation Specialist involves working with Media Technology and related fields. Select Nutritionist/Dietician https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 47/50
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Nutritionist/Dietician involves working with Home Science and related fields. Select Family and Consumer Scientist Family and Consumer Scientist involves working with Home Science and related fields: Select Textile Designer Textile Designer involves working with Home Science and related fields Select Interior Designer Interior Designer involves working with Home Science and related fields. Select Child Development Specialist Child Development Specialist involves working with Home Science related fields; Select Gerontologist Gerontologist involves working with Home Science and related fields: Select Home Economist Home Economist involves working with Home Science and related fields. https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 48/50 and
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Select Consumer Advocate Consumer Advocate involves working with Home Science and related fields: Select Community Nutritionist Community Nutritionist involves working with Home Science and related fields. Select Textile Technologist Textile Technologist involves working with Home Science and related fields Select Housing Specialist Housing Specialist involves working with Home Science related fields. Select Family Therapist Family Therapist involves working with Home Science related fields. Select Fashion Designer Fashion Designer involves working with Home Science and related fields Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 49/50 and and
1/20/26, 5.09 AM Career Selection EduPOA Elderly Care Specialist Elderly Care Specialist involves working with Home Science and related fields Select Preschool Administrator Preschool Administrator involves working with Home Science and related fields: Select Human Development Researcher Human Development Researcher involves working with Home Science and related fields. Select Consumer Product Developer Consumer Product Developer involves working with Home Science related fields. Select https Iledupoa comlcareer-pathwayslcareer-searchl 50/50 and
