 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
REPUBLIC OF KENYA   
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION   
KENYA INSTITUTE OF CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT   
KENYA PRIMARY EDUCATION EQUITY IN LEARNING PROGRAM (KPEELP)  
  
Title  : CONSULTANCY FOR STRENGTHENING THE 
IMPLEMENTATION OF COMPETENCY BASED 
CURRICULUM CBC (KPEELP - P176867)  
 
Contract No  : KE-MOE -422486 -CS-CQS  
  
Project ID  :  P176867  
  
Duration  : 1 YEAR  
  
Procurement Method  : CONSULTANT QUALIFICATION -BASED SELECTION  
        (CQS)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
2 
 TERMS OF REFERENCE  (TOR)  
1.0 BACKGROUND  
The Government t hrough the Ministry of Educati on (MoE) and the World Bank have  designed a 
five - year Kenya Primary Education Equity in Learning Program (KPEELP) project beginning 
the financial year 2022/23. The project aim is to address the prevailing inequities in school 
participation and learning outcomes that present the largest  constraints to improvements in the 
human capital formation that have contributed to variations in subnational Human Capital Index 
(HCI) in Kenya. Considered as a critical step towards achievement of the National Education 
Sector Strategic Plan II (NESSP I I 2022 - 2026), the Program is expected to lead to the higher 
order outcome of improved human capital for higher productivity and growth in Kenya  
 
KPEELP support is through a hybrid approach comprising the World Bank’s Program for Results 
(PforR) and Investment Pr oject Financing (IPF) financing instruments. The Programme for Result 
(PforR) is grounded in the Government’s NESSP II (2022 to 2026). NESSP II includes four pillars 
that are critical for addressing inequities in access to quality basic education:  
(i) access and participation;  
(ii) equity and inclusiveness;  
(iii) quality and relevance; and  
(iv) governance and accountability.  
Concerning regional access and quality, NESSP II aims to address regional disparities in access, 
and improvement in learning outcomes across the country. NESSP II also emphasizes girls’ 
education and refugees’ education as cross cutting issues. NESSP II has a total of 14 subprograms, 
which include subprograms for tertiary level education and regulatory bodies. For basic education, 
there are eight core subprograms:  
(i) governance and accountability;  
(ii) pre-primary education;  
(iii) primary education;  
(iv) secondary education;  
(v) inclusive education for learners and trainees;  
 
3 
 (vi) teacher education development, professional development, and management;  
(vii) quality assurance and standards; and  
(viii) cross cutting and contemporary issues including girl’s education and refugees.  
 
The Project Development Objective (PDO) is to reduce regional disparities in learning outcomes, 
improve the retention of girls in upper primary education and strengthen implementation of key 
initiated reforms to improve learning. The operation is expected to directly benefit approximately 
6 million learners in primary educatio n, 50,000 refugee children, 20, 000 diploma students, and 
about 200,000 primary school teachers.  
The interventions in the project will target three main components;  
The main results areas for the Program are:  
Result Area 1: Equalize learning opportunities by improving learning outcomes in target  
counties and for refugee populations.  
(i) Component 1.1: results -based school grants  
(ii) Component 1.2: improving teacher deployment in public primary schools with the 
highest teacher shortage;  
(iii) Component 1.3: supporting school meals for vulnerable learners; and  
(iv) Component 1.4: conducting NASMLA Grade 3 in low performing counties.  
Result Area 2: Improve the Participation of Girls in Schooling, including in refugee holding 
counties.  
(i) Component 2.1: removing financial barriers to school attendance and meeting the 
basic education needs of girls and boys from poor and vulnerable population  
(ii) Component 2.2: strengthening the supply chain for menstrual hygiene products to 
ensure that girls’ attendance in school will not be interrupted by lack of sanitary 
towels;  
(iii) Component 2.3: tracking girls at risk of dropping out and facilitating the reentry of 
enrolled girls who drop out due to pregnancy, child labour, early marriages, through 
NEMIS.  
Result Area 3: Strengthen Capacity for Implementing Initiated Reforms.   
 
4 
 (i) Component 3.1: better utilization of NEMIS data for filling information gaps in 
CBC implementation, specifically in respect to the allocation of capitation grants, 
mapping of school needs, and development budget allocations.  
(ii) Component 3.2: capacity strengthening of the teacher training colleges to ensure 
that their graduates have acquired the core competencies  
(iii) Component 3.3: establish standards and tools for quality assurance of preschools 
that are fully aligned with the CBC’s objective of improving basic education 
quality.  
(iv) Component 3.4: construction of new classrooms in existing schools as per the 
needs -based school infrastructure investment plan.  
 
2.0  PROJECT DESCRIPTION  
The project aims at reducing regional disparities in learning outcomes, improve the retention of 
girls in upper primary education, and strengthen implementation of key initiated reforms to 
improve learning. The main results areas for the operation  and corresponding implementing 
agencies are:  
a) Equalize learning opportunities: improve learning outcomes in target counties; The 
implementing agency for the school grant will be MoE. The National Council for Nomadic 
Education in Kenya (NACONEK) school meals unit will implement the provision of 
Scho ol Meal Program to the vulnerable learners; support MoE in the supervision of the 
school grants interventions in the camp -based refugee primary schools; and create 
awareness among refugees of the importance of basic education and their right to access 
educ ation. Teacher deployment in public primary schools with the highest teacher shortage 
will be implemented by TSC while KNEC will conduct NASMLA Grade 3 in low 
performing counties.  
b) Improve the participation of girls in schooling . The main implementing agency for this 
result area is MoE and NACONEK.  
c) Strengthen capacity for implementing initiated reforms that will be implemented by MoE, 
KICD and KNEC.  
 
3.0 SYSTEM REFORM SUPPORT  TO KICD  
 
5 
 The GoK with the support of World bank has supported the development, introduction and roll -
out of a Competency -Based C urriculum tha t is currently at Grade 8 . This has been successfully 
accomplished through concerted efforts from varied stakeholders. The Institute is  set to develop 
and roll out a Competency -Based C urriculum for grades 10 to 12 beginning 2026 to 2028 while 
drawing from lessons learnt during develo pment and introduction of Primary and Junior school 
curriculum.  
KPEELP will provide KICD financial assistance to continue the reform of the c urriculum by 
developing the CBC for senior secondary education (grades 10 to 12) and Teacher education.  
To this effect, during the FY yea r 2022/2023, KPEELP financed  the development of the scope and 
sequence charts for Gra de 10 -12, curriculum designs for grade 10 and Curriculum support 
materials for grades 4 and 6 including digitized and adapted  for special needs learners . For 
purposes of continuity, it is prudent to engage the services of a consultant who understands the 
CBC from Early Years Education (EYE) , Primary  School , Junior school and Senior School . This 
is based on the need to link CBC for Early Years Education ( EYE ), CBC for Upper Primary and 
junior school  (Grades 4 to 9) and Senior School (Grades 10 to 12). The development of Curriculum 
support materials in indigenous languages for marginalized and vulnerable groups is also 
supported.  
During the FY year 2023/2024, KICD will develop curriculum designs for grade  11, develop 
curriculum support materials including digitising  and adapt ing for grades 5 and 7 . Teacher 
Education curriculum support materials  will also be developed. Further the Institute will finalize 
on curriculum support materials for indigenous languages for grades 2 and 3.  
 In the FY 2024/2025 KICD will develop curriculum designs for grade  12, develop, digitize  and 
adapt curriculum support materials for grade 8, and for teacher education programmes,  Grade 4 
and 5 indigenous materials will be developed for the vulnerable and Marginalized Groups.   
In the FY 2025/2026  KICD will develop and adapt curricul um support materials for grade 9 , 
develop teacher education programmes, and finalize on curriculum support materials for 
indigenous languages for grade 6 for the Vulnerable and Marginalized Communities.    
 
6 
 The consultancy will therefore focus  to support KICD  on the key o bjectives of the system reform.  
4.0 OBJECTIVES OF CONSULTANCY  
The objective of the consultancy is to strengthen institutional capacity of KICD to implement 
Competency Based Curriculum (CBC). The sub objectives a ligned to the main objective  include:  
i) Review of the Basic Education Curriculum Framework (KICD, 2017) . 
ii) Review the ongoing interventions for Competency Based Curriculum ( CBC) for 
Pre-Primary , Upper Primary and  Junior school to inform planning and execution 
for the CBC for grades 10 to 12.   
iii) Provision  of technical support to KICD on development of curriculum designs  
specifically for grades 10 to 12, based on global best practices.  
iv) Develop ment of  training manuals on Competency -Based Curriculum  (CBC)  for 
training of curriculum developers and other educational stakeholders on 
development of C urriculum support materials  specifically for grades 10 to 12. The 
training manuals should also be ICT based for uploading on the KICD e -cloud to 
facilitate self -learning by the developers as need arises;  
v) Support ing KICD in develo ping a detailed and costed roll -out plan for CBC in 
grades 10 to 12;  
vi) Review of the Monitoring and E valuation framework in line with the emerging 
trends and lessons learnt from CBC implementation.  
vii) Support ing KICD to design and develop curriculum support materials in  Teacher 
Education, based on Global Best Practices.  
viii) Support ing KICD on adaptation and/or development of curriculum designs and 
curriculum support materials for learners with special needs.  
ix) Provision of technical support on digitization of content and curriculum support 
materials including content and materials for learners with special needs.  
 
5.0 SELECTION OF CONSULTANTS  
One multi -skilled consulting firm will be contra cted to provide Technical Assistance based on the 
objective above . The selection will be Consultant Qualification -Based Selection (CQS) will be 
 
7 
 used in selection of the firm  through competitive evaluation of Expressions of Interest (EoI) 
submitted by interested firms and Request for Proposals (RFPs) submitted by shortlisted firms.  
 
6.0 SCOPE OF WORK  
Under the guidance of KICD , the consultancy firm shall be expected to undertake the 
tasks specified in the objectives under 4.0 above . 
 
7.0 DELIVERABLES  
i) An inception report and work plan with timelines on undertaking of all the tasks in 
the TOR;  
ii) Reviewed Basic Education Curriculum Framework;  
iii) A detailed r eport on the review of the ongoing interventions for Competency Based 
Curriculum ( CBC) for Pre -Primary, Upper Primary and Junior school to inform 
planning and execution for the CBC for grades 10 to 12 ; 
iv) A detailed r eport on the Technical Support  to KICD on the development of 
Curriculum designs  for Senior School  (Grade 10 -12) ; 
v) Training manual and/or modules in print and electronic formats for training 
curriculum developer’s/Education stakeholders on senior school;  
vi) A detailed and costed work -plan including timelines on development and roll out 
of CBC in grades 11 to 12;  
vii) Reviewed monitoring and evaluation Framework;  
viii) A detailed report on the technical support to KICD on developing curriculum 
support materials in Teacher Education, based on Global Best Practices;  
ix) A detailed report on the technical support to KICD on review of implementation of 
Pre-Primary and Grade 1 -3; 
x) A detailed r eport on the s upport  to KICD on adaptation and/or development of 
curriculum designs and curriculum support materials for learners with special 
need s; 
xi) A detailed report on the technical support to KICD on digitization of content and 
curriculum support materials including content and materials for learners with 
special needs.  
 
8 
  
8.0 WORK PLAN AND TIME FRAME:  
The assignment is expected to take an estimated period of one (1) year , upon  signing of the contract  
as provided in the table  below: - 
S/No  Activities  Project Deliverables  Performance  
Indicator  
  Estimated 
number 
of days  Review 
and 
Approvals 
Required  
1.  Developing 
the inception 
report for the 
TA An inception report and 
work plan with timelines 
on  
undertaking all the tasks 
in  
the TORs  Inception 
report  10 days KICD  
2.  Technical 
support in 
reviewing the 
Basic 
Education 
Curriculum 
framework  Reviewed Basic 
Education Curriculum 
Framework  Basic 
Education 
Curriculum 
Framework  15 days  KICD  
3.  Reviewing 
curriculum 
design for 
PP1 –PP2 
Grade 1 -3 
Grade 4 -6 
Grade 7 -9 Review report on PP1 –
PP2, Grade 1 -3. Grade 4 -
6,  Grades 7 -9 curriculum 
designs and 
recommendations for 
review on way forward for 
Grade 10 -12 Review report  40 days  KICD  
4.  Technical 
support in 
developing 
curriculum 
designs in 
Senior school  Report on technical 
support in developing 
curriculum designs for 
senior school  No. of designs 
for Senior 
school  40 days  KICD  
5.  Developing a 
training guide 
for training 
curriculum 
developers for 
Senior school   Training guide for 
training curriculum 
developers  Training 
guide/Module  15 days  KICD  
6.  Technical 
support in 
developing a 
costed plan Costed roll -out plan for 
CBC in grades 10 to 12  Detailed costed 
rollout plan  20 days KICD  
 
9 
 for rollout of 
CBC for 
Grade 10 -12 
7.  Technical 
support in 
reviewing a 
monitoring 
and 
evaluation 
framework  Monitoring and 
evaluation framework  Monitoring and 
Evaluation 
Framework  10 days  KICD  
8.  Technical 
support in 
developing 
Curriculum 
support 
Materials for 
Teacher 
Education  Curriculum support 
materials for Teacher 
Education developed  No. of 
materials 
developed for 
Teacher 
Education  15 days  KICD  
9.  Technical 
support in 
developing 
curriculum 
designs and 
curriculum 
support 
materials for 
Special Needs 
learners  Curriculum designs and 
Curriculum Support 
Materials developed  No. of 
curriculum 
designs and 
curriculum 
support 
materials 
developed  15 days  KICD  
10.  Technical 
support on 
digitization of 
content and 
curriculum 
support 
materials 
including 
content and 
materials for 
learners with 
special needs  Digitized content and 
curriculum support 
materials for learners 
with special needs  No. of digitized 
content and 
curriculum 
support 
materials for 
learners with 
special needs  15 days  KICD  
 
9.0 ELIGIB ILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR  THE  CONSULTANCY FIRM:  
a) The core team should be comprised of at least 5 qualified professionals with no less than a 
Master’s Degree in Education and Research  in Education  in the following areas:  
 
10 
 • Science and Mathematics  
• Technical studies  
• Humanities  
• Sports  
• Creative Arts  
• Teacher Education  
• Community Service Learning (CSL)  
• Languages  
• Any other related area.  
b) The firm shall demonstrate evidence  (contracts and recommendations from past clients))  
of having supported  national curriculum development /review and development of 
curriculum support  materials  in other contexts ; preferably the African context . 
c) The firm shall show documented (contracts and recommendations from past clients)) 
experience  in designing Competence Based Curriculum (CBC);  
d) The firm shall show evidence of training in CBC at the various levels Early years, Upper 
Primary, Junior school and senior school;  
e) The firm shall demonstrate the capacity  in terms of resources/materials, its competencies 
and time  to support KICD in design, implementation and evaluation of CBC;  
f) The firm shall demonstrate capacity to support KICD in digitization of curriculum designs 
and curriculum support materials including provision for learners with special needs.  
g) Strong interpersonal, communication, analytical and report writing skills;  
i) Must be committed to adhering to the agreed timelines and the provisions of the KICD Act, 
2013.  
   The firm must  (Mandatory) submit the following statutory documents: - 
I. Copy of Company Registration Certificates (registered company incorporated in 
Kenya under the Companies Act CAP 486).  
II.  Copy of Valid Tax Compliance Certificate,  
III. Evidence of physical location of office by providing certified copies of premises 
ownership / lease, and utility bills.  
 
11 
 IV.  Copy of company’s list of directors, beneficial owners, name of proprietor or 
names of partners (Copy of CR12) issued within the last one year and showing the 
list of directors  
V. In case of Joint venture, attach joint venture agreement  
VI.   FOR FOREIGN FIRMS, PROVIDE EQUIVALENT OF ALL THE ABOVE 
WHERE APPLICABLE.  
 
10.0 TEAM COMPOSITIONS AND QUALIFICATIONS REQUIRED FOR THE KEY 
EXPERTS:  
The team will comprise of the following key experts:  
1) Education Management Specialist who will be the lead expert with a Doctorate 
specializing in Curriculum development and over 10 years of relevant professional 
experience, particularly in the area of Competency Based Curriculum development and 
assessment, proven professional experience in design, develo pment and implementation of 
CBC.  
2) Competency Based Curriculum advisor  
Holder of a master’s degree in education, public policy or related field, has at least 10 years 
of experience in Curriculum development.  
3) Curriculum development Specialists/Subject Specialists  
Holders of a Masters or corresponding degrees  with a minimum of ten (10) years’  in their 
specialized field e.g. Science and Mathematics, Technical studies, Humanities, Sports, 
Creative Arts, Teacher Education, Community Service Learning (CSL) and Languages.  
4) Education Technology Specialist  
Holder of a Master’s Degree in Educational Technology with a minimum of ten (10) years’ 
experience in development and content digitization and adaptation of materials for use by 
learners with disa bilities . 
5) Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist  
A Holder of a relevant post -graduate university degree in Monitoring and evaluation, at least 
10 years’ experience in monitoring and evaluation in education projects/programs.  
 
 
 
12 
 11.0WHAT THE CONSULTANT SHOULD SUBMIT  
a) A proposal demonstrating understanding of the scope of work, and proposed work -
plan indicating timelines against deliverables;  
b) Team Lea der and core team of at least 5 members;  
c) Profile indicating previous consultancies and references.  
 
12.0 KICD INPUT AND COUNTERPART PERSONNEL  
i. Information on the KPEELP Project  and overall implementation of CBC  by Kenya Institute 
of Curriculum Development (KICD);  
ii. A copy of the Basic Education Curriculum Framework (BECF)  (KICD,2017) and any other 
relevant documents.   
iii. Previous Monitoring and Evaluation reports for the various levels for the previous years.  
iv. Staff, rooms and facilities for workshops and meetings.  
 
13.0PAYMENT SCHEDULE  
S/No.  Deliverables  Payments  
1.  Upon submission and adoption of an inception report and work  
plan with timelines on undertaking of all the tasks in the TOR  10% 
2.  Upon submission and adoption of a comprehensive report on Review of 
the Basic Education Curriculum Framework  (KICD,2017)  10% 
3. 
 Upon submission and adoption of a comprehensive detailed  
report on Review report on PP1 –PP2, Grade 1 -3. Grade 4 -6, Grades  
7-9 curriculum designs  10% 
4.  Upon submission and adoption  of training manual /guide which are ICT 
compliant  10% 
5.  Upon submission and adoption of a detailed and costed roll -out p lan for 
CBC in grades 10 to 12;  10% 
6.  Upon submission and adoption of a comprehensive report on reviewing a 
monitoring and evaluation framework  10% 
7.  Upon submission and adoption of a comprehensive report on design and 
develop ment of  curriculum support materials in  Teacher Education, based 
on Global Best Practices.  10% 
8.  Upon submission and adoption of a comprehensive report on adaptation 
and/or development of curriculum designs and curriculum support 
materials for learners with special needs.  10% 
 
13 
 9.  Upon submission and adoption of a comprehensive report on digitization of 
content and curriculum support materials including content and materials 
for learners with special needs.  10% 
10.   Upon submission and adoption of a comprehensive detailed final  
report  10% 
 
14.0REPORTING  
i) The consulting firm and KICD will agree on the dates for regular meetings. It is estimated 
that at least one such meeting will take place every three ( 3) months throughout the 
assignment but the frequency may increase depending on the on -going activity.  
ii) The firm will work closely with KICD and report to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), 
KICD.  
iii) The consulting firm will submit reports and documents to the CEO and the KICD KPEELP 
technical working team focal person as may be required from time to time  
 
15.0METHODOLOGY  
The firm must provide, in the Request for Proposals ( RFP), a clear detailed description of:  
i. The methodology to be employed in undertaking the assignment for the three phases: - 
a. Design  
b. Implementation strategy and work plan.  
c. Monitoring and Evaluation schedule  
ii. The matrix of personnel in each phase that will be required to complete the assignment 
in the specified time.  
b). Expression of Interest ( EOIs ) accompanied with copies of relevant documents and testimonials 
should be submitted in plain sealed envelope clearly marked with the contract reference number 
and title of the consultancy in two sets.  
 
16.0 APPLICATION PROCEDURE  
 
Applicat ions accompanied by copies of relevant documents and testimonials should be submitted 
in a plain sealed envelope clearly marked and sent to the address below:  
CONSULTANCY : CONSULTANCY FOR STRENGTHENING THE IMPLEMENTATION 
OF COMPETENCY BASED CURRICULUM CBC (KPEELP - P176867):  
 
14 
 Reference: KE-MOE-422486 -CS-CQS 
And sent to the address below:  
The Principal  Secretary,  
Ministry  of Education  
State Department for 
Basic Education,  Attn:  
Head of  Supply Chain  
Management  
Postal  Address:  P.O. Box 30040,  Nairobi,  Kenya  
Code:  00100  
Tel -020-318581  
Email:  ppo@education.go.ke  
 
 
