Source URL: https://share.google/I84rzVCWqx1FncR9O
Harvested: 2026-01-23T13:00:52.293608
Method: html_extract
---

Digital Content | Kenya Education Cloud | Unlimited Learning Experiences
Skip to main content
(
Login
)
KENYA
EDUCATION
CLOUD
Unlimited learning experiences
Start here
Explore our digital content
Our mission is to provide curated, grade-wise, high-quality, engaging, and accessible digital content to all learners, anywhere.We believe that digital content has the potential to transform education and to make learning more accessible and engaging for everyone.
Access digital content for the following categories
Explore resources created by KICD, publishers and
content creators to inspire creativity, and encourage
hands-on learning. Our resources supports learning in
the classroom and at home, and includes Interactive
digital content, Radio audio lesson, Educhannel TV
lessons, and more.
Interactive Digital Content
Access digital content that is aligned to competency-based curriculum (CBC).
Educhanel TV Lessons
Access KICD's educhannel broadcasted live lessons
on-demand, students can watch multiple
times
Radio Lessons
Interactive radio and audio instruction resources,that
foster continuous interaction between learners and the
radio characters
E-Books
Get access to electronic books from KICD
Pre-Primary Education
Access digital content for the first level of education under the Competency Based Curriculum (CBC) where learners are engaged in their early years of education.
Pre-primary 1
Pre-primary 2
Primary Education
Access digital content for Primary school education, that provide engaging materials such as interactive lessons, videos, games, and quizzes, that cover essential learning areas and designed to support both in-classroom and at-home learning.
Grade 1
Grade 2
Grade 3
Grade 4
Grade 5
Grade 6
Secondary Education
Access digital content for Grade 7, Form1, Form 2, Form 3, and Form 4
Grade 7
Form 1
Form 2
Form 3
Form 4
Special Needs Education
Adapted Interactive Digital Content for Learners with Hearing Impairment (HI) and Visual Impairment (VI) is designed to ensure inclusive, accessible, and engaging educational experiences for all learners, regardless of their sensory abilities. By utilizing a range of assistive technologies and content modifications, this adapted digital content makes learning more effective and meaningful for students with hearing and visual impairments.
Learners with Hearing impairments
Learners with Visual impairment
Foundational and Stage-based
Open Education Resourses(OERs)
Open Educational Resources (OER) are freely accessible, openly licensed educational materials that educators, students, and self-learners can use, modify, and redistribute without financial or legal restrictions. These resources provide a flexible and cost-effective way to enhance teaching and learning while promoting the sharing and continuous improvement of educational content.
OER Catalogue
ABRACADABRA Grade 1,2 and 3
READs E-Books
Health Literacy
Carbon Literacy
Virtual Labs Simulations
Cutting-edge, interactive simulations designed to enhance science, engineering, and technology education. These labs provide a safe and scalable environment where students can perform experiments, explore complex concepts, and reinforce their theoretical understanding through practical applications..
Chemistry
Physics
Biology
Mathematics
Teacher Education
The Teacher Resources on the Kenya Education Cloud (KEC) are a category of digital content specifically curated to support teachers in curriculum implementation, teaching practice, and professional development. These resources align with the Competency-Based Curriculum (CBC)
Educational Resources Materials Development
Pre-Primary Teacher Radio Programmes
Interactive Digital Content for Teacher Education
Special Needs Education for Early Years
Elimika CBC Courses
Additional Resources
These materials are designed to offer supplementary and supportive materials for teachers, learners, and parents, going beyond the core curriculum content.
Accessible Digital Textbooks
Information, Education and Communication(IEC) Materials
Parental Resources
General Knowledge
Educhannel TV Lessons
Search lessons
Search
Home
Pre-primary
Pre-Primary 1
Pre-Primary 2
Primary
Grade 1
Grade 2
Grade 3
Grade 4
Grade 5
Grade 6
Secondary
Grade 7
Grade 8
Form 1
Form 2
Form 3
Form 4
OER's
SNE
The Kenya Education Cloud (KEC) is a digital platform designed to enhance teaching and learning in Kenya by providing a wide range of digital educational resources. Serving as a centralized hub for e-learning, it promotes access to interactive content, supports modern pedagogical methods, and fosters collaboration among educators and learners.
External Links
Ministry of Education
Kenya National Examinations Council
Teachers Service Commission Kenya
Kenya Institute of Special Education (KISE)
ICT Authority
TVET Authority
Elimika
Additional Resources
Accessible Digital Textbook (ADT)
Curriculum Reports
Parental Resources
Child Online Protection Guidelines
Our Contacts
Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development
Desai Rd, Off Muranga Rd,
Nairobi, Kenya.
Telephone Contacts
+254 729327331
+254 729327334
Email Address
info@kicd.ac.ke
Kenya Education Cloud © 2024. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
(
Login
)
Data retention summary
