 
 
 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE  
Nairobi, December 21 , 2025  
STATUS OF THE ONGOING PLACEMENT OF GRADE NINE LEARNERS IN SENIOR 
SCHOOLS  
The Ministry of Education wishes to state the following regarding the ongoing 
placement of learners in Senior Schools:  
 
 1. The Competency -Based Education (CBE) is founded on the necessity of aligning the 
education system with National Development goals, global education trends, and the 
equipping of learners with relevant skills and competencies  for a competitive local and 
international job market. CBE focuses on preparing learners to pursue careers that 
match their manifest competencies with professional aspirations. It also de -escalates 
the focus on one -off examinations  as a measure of learners ’ true competencies.  
 
 2. In implementing CBE, the Government has been deliberate in embracing 
consultations with stakeholders. The dialogues have been extended to the planning 
and development of essential complements, including an appropriate curriculum, the 
hiring and retooling of teachers, modernization and expansion of schools’ infrastructure, 
equipment upgrades, and periodic review of implementation status to align it with 
emerging challenges and realities.  
 
 3. A key feature of CBE is the provision of  pathway selection in Grade 9. This allows 
students to choose educational pathways that correspond with their demonstrated 
skills, interests, and aspirations. The options are: (i) Science, Technology, Engineering, 
and Mathematics (STEM), (ii) Social Scienc es, and (iii) Arts and Sports. Learners are 
provided with 12 choices to make for their preferred senior schools (Grade 10), ranging 
from C1 to C4. The options give learners a platform to select schools that match their 
competencies, preferences, and instit utions’ capacities.  This pathway selection 
exercise  was concluded earlier this year with each learner, under the guidance of 
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION  
State Department for Basic Education  
parents and teachers, selecting a pathway featuring  a three -subject -combination  
 
 4. To assess learners’ competencies, CBE relies o n formative and summative 
assessments on a 20 -20-60 percent basis. Forty  percent of the assessment is formative  
based on  Kenya Primary School Education Assessment (KPSEA)  in grade 6 , while 
another 20 percent  is based on continuous assessment by teachers in  grade 7 and 8 . 
The balance of 60 percent is obtained in the Kenya Junior Secondary Education 
Assessment (KJSEA) administered in Grade 9. This staggered assessment provides a well -
rounded and realistic evaluation of learners’ abilities, suitability, and re adiness for a 
specific pathway.  
 
 5. The pioneer Kenya Junior School Education Assessment (KJSEA) for Grade 9 was 
administered in November this year. The examination s were conducted smoothly across 
the country, and results were officially released on sched ule on December 11th. 
Throughout the exercise, the Ministry involved stakeholders, including the media, to 
underscore efficiency an d competency . 
 
 6. Subsequent to the release of results, the Ministry has undertaken the placement of 
learners into senior sc hools (Grade 10). This has been done using an automated system 
that factors in learners’ choices, performance, and other considerations designed to 
promote merit, equity, and fairness in the allocation of available school spaces.  
 
 7. While many learners h ave been placed in their schools of choice, the Ministry is 
aware that some parents and candidates have expressed dissatisfaction with the 
placements. This is largely attributable to high competition and limited admission slots in 
popular schools, misalign ed communication between parents, learners, and heads of 
institutions on selected schools, and variances between selected pathways and 
assessment outcomes.  
 
 8. To address such concerns, the Ministry will open a seven -day review of senior school 
choices on  Tuesday, December 23rd. Candidates are advised to contact  their Grade 9 
schools  or the Ministry of Education Sub - County  and County offices  to take advantage 
of this window through their respective heads of institutions. The review will be guided 
by an automated system that will match preferences to learners’ perfor mance and the 
availability of slots in schools. During the review pe riod, incorrect gender entries will also 
be addressed.  
 
 9. Being a pioneer undertaking, the Government appreciates and empathizes with 
parents, learners, and other stakeholders’ anxieties and uncertainties around the 
transition to Grade 10. We are dedicated to making the placement process as 
transparent, fair,  and satisfactory as possible while taking into account learners’ 
preferences and the capacities and available pathways in respective schools. We 
encourage all involved parties to engage constructively in the placement process as 
we collectively refine and  strengthen CBE for the benefit of our learners.  
 
 
 
Amb. (Prof.) Julius K. Bitok, CBS  
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY  
