 
 
 Revolutionizing  Junior Secondary Education in Kenya Through Technology | Makini  
 
In Kenya’s educational landscape, many schools such as Makini are embracing technology to 
transform the learning experience for their students. To support digital integration in 
education , a significant investment of Sh.150 million has been allocated for infrastructure 
upgrades across all Makini Schools in Kenya.  This will enable the schools to expand Wi- Fi 
accessibility both inside and outside classrooms, install state -of-the-art projectors, and sound 
bars, ensuring a seamless transition to online lessons  when needed. Additionally, Makini 
teachers will be equipped with the latest devices and training  to enhanc e their teaching 
capabilities.  As the digital age continues to reshape every single aspect of society, educators are 
harnessing the power of technology to enhance teaching and learning in unprecedented ways.   
The implementation of technology in the classroom is more than just a trend. It is a strategic investment in the future of education. With the support of government initiatives and private 
partnerships, schools are equipping classrooms with computers, tabl ets, interactive 
whiteboards and high- speed internet access. This infrastructure is the foundation for an 
interactive, dynamic and engaging learning environment where students can explore, 
collaborate and innovate like never before.  
 
What are the key benefits of i ntegrating technology in j unior secondary education?  
 
1. A personali zed learning experience.  
One of the most significant benefits of technology  in education is its ability to offer students 
a more personali zed learning experience. Teachers can  tailor their instructions to meet the 
diverse needs and learning styles of individual students.  Education software and learning 
platforms can enhance learning and further cement concepts into the children’s minds.  
 2. Extra help is available when  needed.  
Technology also provides extra practice for learners who might be struggling. Through 
enrichment activities, teachers can diversify their lessons and make sure that no child is left 
behind.  
 3. Collaboration and communication are  enhanced.  
Technology in the classroom s of J unior schools  also fosters collaboration and 
communication between students, both inside and outside the class. Google Classroom and Microsoft Teams for example, enable students to work together on projects. They can share 
ideas  and get feedback in real -time. Collaborative learning approaches enhance academic 
outcomes and promote teamwork, problem solving and communication skills.    
 
4. Access to resources and opportunities  
Students at schools like Makini, have access to online libraries, educational websites  and 
multimedia resources. They can explore a wealth of information and even go on virtual field 
trips. With interactive simulations and educational games, learning comes alive in ways that 
traditional textbooks could never capture.  
 
 
What challenges do Kenyan s chools face in adopting educational technology?  
While Makini School is fortunate to be able to adopt blended learning through technology, not all schools in Kenya have the means. Lack of resources and investment is often the biggest 
hurdle faced by schools across the country. Other factors include inade quate infrastructure, the 
lack of affordable and adequate internet bandwidth, a lack of e -learning policies as well as the 
limited technical skills of staff.  Having said that, many schools in Kenya (with the help of 
government initiatives) have adopted educational technology  and continue to strive for this 
enhanced learning and experience in their classrooms.   
How is Makini School implementing technology in to its curriculum?  
Makini School  is rolling  out A dvLearn , an innovative digital learning tool that uses adaptive 
learning technology to enhance learning outcomes.  ADvLearn offers a personalized approach to learning by empowering teachers to identify and address knowledge gaps in key subjects . It 
elevates students’ success and academic excellence with  AI-generated data insights.  This 
ground -breaking innovation is set to be fully operational by May 2024 in all Makini Schools.  
 
ADvLearn creates a secure online environment that complements traditional classroom learning 
by offering personalized assignments to learners , enabling real- time progress monitoring by 
teachers. The platform also equips teachers with precise insights into each student's strengths 
and weaknesses . This  gives teachers the ability  to tailor their  teaching to suit the needs of 
learners, addressing specific learning gaps. As a result, it fosters a more effective educational 
experience.  
 
Data analysis conducted by ADvTECH reveals that students who regularly engage with the 
platform experience marked improvements in their subject grades, with progress rates between 15% and 29%. This indicates a potential effectiveness in embracing technology  in 
education.  
 Makini School focuses on quality education while moving with global trends. E -learning has 
been incorporated into a learning model being referred to as Blended Learning or Hybrid Learning. Hybrid Learning combines traditional classroom work with online cou rses. Technology 
is integrated to boost learning and ensure that students are skilled for the future.  
 Blended Learning is a model that combines face -to-face and online instruction in ways that 
customi ze the learning experience for each student while making content accessible. Today’s 
students need to create, collaborate and share digital content responsibly. At Makini, we understand just how important online literacy skills are and that students need to know how to 
use it all responsibly. By incorporating technology into classr ooms, Makini offers its students a 
well- rounded education that will set them apart in the future.  
 
As more and more of our lives become dependent on technology, it is of the utmost 
importance for students to experience technology in their daily lives. By integrating technology 
into the curriculum at Makini, we are not only preparing students for the digital age but also 
expanding their horizons and fostering a love for lifelong learning.  For more information about 
Makini School, please visit our website https://www.makinischool.ac.ke/  
 
 
