 Strengthening t eachers’ training for the success of CBC  
In 2017, Kenya embarked on a significant educational transformation by introducing the Competency -
Based Curriculum (CBC), replacing the long -standing 8 -4-4 system.  The focus of the Government was 
to move from an examination -based assessment to a more holistic approach that emphasizes the 
development of various competencies  in learners, including critical thinking, problem -solving, 
creativity, and communication skills , in order to prepare  learners for real-life challenges and not just 
academic success.  
However, as with any significant change, the CBC journey has been marked by challenges that have 
tested the resolve of educators and stakeholders alike.  These challenges include; lack of clear 
educational policies for effective implementation of the curriculum, doubts about the  validity and 
reliability of learners’ scores, inadequate  information and communication technology ( ICT) 
infrastructure, an insufficient number  of adequately trained teachers , and a prevailing  negative 
attitude among educational stakeholders towards CBC. 
The lack  of properly trained teachers  stands out as a primary obstacle to  the successful 
implementation of the CBC . A significant number of teachers  lack essential ICT skills , finding it difficult 
to integrate technology into their instruction within Competency -based subjects.  
A report  recently presented to the President by the Presidential Working Party on Education Reforms 
(PWPER) highlighted the pressing need for qualified teachers to facilitate the CBC's success.  The report  
recommends that the Ministry of Education develop guidelines for all teachers who graduated before 
2023 to undergo a mandatory one -year retooling and upgrading program. This initiative, while 
commendable, underscores the urgency of addressing the training gap  among teachers  in the CBC era.  
One promising solution to this challenge i nvolves  learning institutions establishing a group of 
academic experts who will ensure the success of the curriculum by providing and equipping teachers 
with the skills needed  through the implementation of a Central Academics Team (CAT) model in our 
schools .  
The Central Academics Team also known as Curriculum Leadership Team comprises  a group of 
educators and administrators within an educational institution or school district that is responsible for  
overseeing and coordinating various aspects of the academic program. The model ensure s the delivery 
of high -quality education, consistent curriculum standards, and effective instructional practices 
throughout the institution.  In addition, i ts composition and responsibilities vary depending on the size 
and structure of the educational organization.  
Teachers are the primary beneficiaries of the CAT model, as it places a strong emphasis on their professional development, collaboration, and instructional support , keep ing them abreast with  the 
latest academic  methods and educational trends. This investment not only enhances teaching skills 
and practices but also  provide s critical guidance to address teachers' concerns  and further cultivates 
competent future school administrators.  
By work ing closely with teachers , CATs collaborate  to develop lesson plans, instructional strategies , 
and teaching resources that support student learning and engagement. This collaborative approach 
ensures a  supportive learning environment for both students and staff , fostering a culture of 
continuous learning.  
Addition ally, CATs  ensure curriculum development by designing, updating, and aligning the curriculum 
to educational standards and learning objectives. This approach  creates a cohesive and well -organized 
educational framework for all grade levels and subject areas . Consequently,  teachers gain  the 
knowledge and tools needed to create meaningful relationships with students, energize lessons, 
enhance the learning environment, build motivation , and improve attitudes .  
Collaboration is crucial for  educational progress, and CATs play a pivotal role in fostering it  among 
teachers, administrators, and other stakeholders. When teachers collaborate to improve lesson plans, the result is more engaging classroom sessions that benefit students directly.  
At Makini Schools, we provide an example of a  successful implementation of the CBC curriculum from 
the pre-primary level to Upper Primary level. By embracing the C AT model, we boast  of well- trained 
teachers committed to delivering learner- centered, child -friendly , and innovative 21st -century  lessons 
that set us apart from other education providers. This is achieve d by employing fun -filled learning 
experiences that ignite the urge of learners to acquire new skills, knowledge, and competencies.  
To realize  the education reforms  suggested by PWPER , learning institutions can emulate the CAT 
model  to address the training gap faced by teachers. The benefits  of this model are not limited to 
teachers alone ; they extend  to ensuring quality education , upholding high curriculum standards , and 
securing a brighter future for the education system as a whole.   
It is a call to empower teachers, ensuring they are equipped to lead the way in realizing the full potential of the CBC curriculum and nurturing the next generation of informed and capable learners.  
 
 
  
